br refactor (3): translate use cases, faq, increment br, monitor, batch create, and auto tune (#11379)
pingcap/docs: faq/backup-and-restore-faq.md

---
title: Backup & Restore FAQs
summary: Learn about Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) and the solutions of backup and restore.
aliases: ['/docs/dev/br/backup-and-restore-faq/','/tidb/dev/pitr-troubleshoot/','/tidb/dev/pitr-known-issues/']
---

# Backup & Restore FAQs

> This document lists the frequently asked questions (FAQs) and the solutions of backup and restore provided by TiDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document lists the frequently asked questions (FAQs) and the solutions of TiDB backup and restore.
```

## Performance issues of backup and restore

## In TiDB v5.4.0 and later versions, when backup tasks are performed on the cluster under a heavy workload, why does the speed of backup tasks become slow?

> Starting from TiDB v5.4.0, backup and restore introduces the auto-tune feature for backup tasks. For clusters in v5.4.0 or later versions, this feature is enabled by default. When the cluster workload is heavy, the feature limits the resources used by backup tasks to reduce the impact on the online cluster. For more information, refer to [Backup Auto-Tune](/br/br-auto-tune.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting from TiDB v5.4.0, BR introduces the auto-tune feature for backup tasks. For clusters in v5.4.0 or later versions, this feature is enabled by default. When the cluster workload is heavy, the feature limits the resources used by backup tasks to reduce the impact on the online cluster. For more information, refer to [Backup Auto-Tune](/br/br-auto-tune.md).
```

When you perform backup tasks on an offline cluster, to speed up the backup, you can modify the value of `backup.num-threads` to a larger number using `tikv-ctl`.

## PITR issues

### Why `br` encounters the OOM problem after I run the `br log truncate` command?

Issue: [#36648](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/36648)

Consider the following possible causes:

- The range of logs to be deleted is too large.

    To resolve this issue, reduce the range of logs to be deleted first and delete the target logs in several batches instead of deleting them once.

- The memory allocation of the node where the `br` process is located is too low.

>     It is recommended to scale up the node memory configuration to at least 16 GB to ensure that PITR has sufficient memory resources for recovery.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    It is recommended to scale up the node memory configuration to at least 16 GB to ensure that PITR has sufficient memory for recovery.
```

### When the upstream database imports data using TiDB Lightning in the physical import mode, the log backup feature becomes unavailable. Why?

> Currently, the log backup feature is not fully adapted to TiDB Lightning. Therefore, data imported in the physical mode of TiDB Lightning cannot be backed up to logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, the log backup feature is not fully adapted to TiDB Lightning. Therefore, data imported in the physical mode of TiDB Lightning cannot be backed up into log data
```

### What should I do if the error message `ErrBackupGCSafepointExceeded` is returned when using the `br log resume` command to resume a suspended task?

```shell
Error: failed to check gc safePoint, checkpoint ts 433177834291200000: GC safepoint 433193092308795392 exceed TS 433177834291200000: [BR:Backup:ErrBackupGCSafepointExceeded]backup GC safepoint exceeded
```

After you pause a log backup task, to prevent the MVCC data from being garbage collected, the pausing task program sets the current checkpoint as the service safepoint automatically. This ensures that the MVCC data generated within 24 hours can remain. If the MVCC data of the backup checkpoint has been generated for more than 24 hours, the data of the checkpoint will be garbage collected, and the backup task is unable to resume.

> To address this problem, delete the current task using `br log stop`, and then create a log backup task using `br log start`. At the same time, you can perform a full backup for subsequent PITR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To address this problem, delete the current task using `br log stop`, and then create a. new log backup task using `br log start`. At the same time, you can perform a full backup for subsequent PITR.
```

Author: Usually we do not add `new` to `create`, because something created is undoubtedly new.

### Where are the backed up files stored when I use `local` storage?

> **Note:**
>
> If no Network File System (NFS) is mounted to a `br` or TiKV node, or if you use external storage that supports Amazon S3, GCS, or Azure Blob Storage protocols, the data backed up by `br` is generated at each TiKV node.**Note that this is not the recommended way to deploy `br`**, because the backup data are scattered in the local file system of each node. Collecting the backup data might result in data redundancy and operation and maintenance problems. Meanwhile, if you restore data directly before collecting the backup data, you will encounter the `SST file not found` error.

> When you use `local` storage, `backupmeta` is generated on the node where `br` is running, and backup files are generated on the Leader nodes of each Region.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you use local storage, `backupmeta` is generated on the node where `br` is running, and backup files are generated on the Leader nodes of each Region.
```

When you restore data, each node must have access to **all** backup files (SST files). By default, if `local` storage is used, you cannot restore data because the backup files are scattered among different nodes. Therefore, you have to copy the backup file of each TiKV node to the other TiKV nodes. **It is recommended that you store backup data to Amazon S3, Google Cloud Storage (GCS), Azure Blob Storage, or NFS**.

### What should I do to handle the `Permission denied` or `No such file or directory` error, even if I have tried to run `br` using root in vain?

You need to confirm whether TiKV has access to the backup directory. To back up data, confirm whether TiKV has the write permission. To restore data, confirm whether it has the read permission.

During the backup operation, if the storage medium is the local disk or a network file system (NFS), make sure that the user to start `br` and the user to start TiKV are consistent (if `br` and TiKV are on different machines, the users' UIDs must be consistent). Otherwise, the `Permission denied` issue might occur.

> Running `br` with the root access might fail due to the disk permission, because the backup files (SST files) are saved by TiKV.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Running `br` as the `root` user might fail due to the disk permission, because the backup files (SST files) are saved by TiKV.
```

> **Note:**
>
> You might encounter the same problem during data restore. When the SST files are read for the first time, the read permission is verified. The execution duration of DDL suggests that there might be a long interval between checking the permission and running `br`. You might receive the error message `Permission denied` after waiting for a long time.

> >
> > Therefore, it is recommended to check the permission before data restore according to the following steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Therefore, it is recommended to check the permission before data restore according to the following steps:
```

> 1. Run the Linux-native command for process query:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Run the Linux command for process query:
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    ps aux | grep tikv-server
    ```

>     The output of the above command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The output is as follows:
```

    ```shell
    tidb_ouo  9235 10.9  3.8 2019248 622776 ?      Ssl  08:28   1:12 bin/tikv-server --addr 0.0.0.0:20162 --advertise-addr 172.16.6.118:20162 --status-addr 0.0.0.0:20188 --advertise-status-addr 172.16.6.118:20188 --pd 172.16.6.118:2379 --data-dir /home/user1/tidb-data/tikv-20162 --config conf/tikv.toml --log-file /home/user1/tidb-deploy/tikv-20162/log/tikv.log
    tidb_ouo  9236  9.8  3.8 2048940 631136 ?      Ssl  08:28   1:05 bin/tikv-server --addr 0.0.0.0:20161 --advertise-addr 172.16.6.118:20161 --status-addr 0.0.0.0:20189 --advertise-status-addr 172.16.6.118:20189 --pd 172.16.6.118:2379 --data-dir /home/user1/tidb-data/tikv-20161 --config conf/tikv.toml --log-file /home/user1/tidb-deploy/tikv-20161/log/tikv.log
    ```

    Or you can run the following command:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    ps aux | grep tikv-server | awk '{print $1}'
    ```

>     The output of the above command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The output is as follows:
```

    ```shell
    tidb_ouo
    tidb_ouo
    ```

> 2. Query the startup information of the cluster using the TiUP command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Query the startup information of the cluster using the `tiup` command:
```

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    tiup cluster list
    ```

>     The output of the above command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The output is as follows:
```

    ```shell
    [root@Copy-of-VM-EE-CentOS76-v1 br]# tiup cluster list
    Starting component `cluster`: /root/.tiup/components/cluster/v1.5.2/tiup-cluster list
    Name          User      Version  Path                                               PrivateKey
    ----          ----      -------  ----                                               ----------
    tidb_cluster  tidb_ouo  v5.0.2   /root/.tiup/storage/cluster/clusters/tidb_cluster  /root/.tiup/storage/cluster/clusters/tidb_cluster/ssh/id_rsa
    ```

3. Check the permission for the backup directory. For example, `backup` is for backup data storage:

    {{< copyable "shell-regular" >}}

    ```bash
    ls -al backup
    ```

>     The output of the above command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The output is as follows:
```

    ```shell
    [root@Copy-of-VM-EE-CentOS76-v1 user1]# ls -al backup
    total 0
    drwxr-xr-x  2 root root   6 Jun 28 17:48 .
    drwxr-xr-x 11 root root 310 Jul  4 10:35 ..
    ```

>     From the above output, you can find that the `tikv-server` instance is started by the user `tidb_ouo`. But the user `tidb_ouo` does not have the write permission for `backup`. Therefore, the backup fails.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    From the output of step 2, you can find that the `tikv-server` instance is started by the user `tidb_ouo`. But the user `tidb_ouo` does not have the write permission for `backup`. Therefore, the backup fails.
```

### Why does tables in the `mysql` schema not be restored?

> Starting from `br` v5.1.0, when you perform a full backup, `br` backs up the **tables in the `mysql` schema**. Before `br` v6.2.0, under default configuration, `br` only restores user data, but does not restore tables in the **mysql schema**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting from `br` v5.1.0, when you perform a full backup, `br` backs up the **tables in the `mysql` schema**. Before `br` v6.2.0, under default configuration, `br` only restores user data, but does not restore tables in the **`mysql` schema**.
```

However, if you want to restore data from local storage, the number of replicas is equal to that of the TiKV nodes, because each TiKV must have access to all backup files.

### Why is the disk usage shown on the monitoring node inconsistent after backup or restore using `br` ?

This inconsistency is caused by the fact that the data compression rate used in backup is different from the default rate used in restore. If the checksum succeeds, you can ignore this issue.

### After `br` restores the backup data, do I need to execute the `ANALYZE` statement on the table to update the statistics of TiDB on the tables and indexes?

`br` does not back up statistics (except in v4.0.9). Therefore, after restoring the backup data, you need to manually execute `ANALYZE TABLE` or wait for TiDB to automatically execute `ANALYZE`.

In v4.0.9, `br` backs up statistics by default, which consumes too much memory. To ensure that the backup process goes well, the backup for statistics is disabled by default starting from v4.0.10.

> If you do not execute `ANALYZE` on the table, TiDB will fail to select the optimized execution plan due to inaccurate statistics. If query performance is not a key concern, you can ignore `ANALYZE`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you do not execute `ANALYZE` on the table, TiDB will fail to select the optimal execution plan due to inaccurate statistics. If query performance is not a key concern, you can ignore `ANALYZE`.
```
